---
layout: post
title: "Do You Ever Find Yourself In the Great and Spacious Building?"
category: my-peace
---
<div class="entry-content">

Two weeks ago in [Relief Society](https://www.lds.org/callings/relief-society/purposes?lang=eng), we were discussing the principle of virtue. In the [lesson manual](https://www.lds.org/manual/teachings-of-presidents-of-the-church-gordon-b-hinckley/chapter-18-virtue-a-cornerstone-on-which-to-build-our-lives?lang=eng), President Gordon B. Hinckley referenced the Key Bank building in Salt Lake City, UT coming down through a process of implosion. I thought about this idea of implosion throughout the remainder of the meeting. It can be hard not to feel like the world is preparing to implode. The question, then, is how can we prepare for the impending disaster?

First, let’s take a look at the whole process. A building is brought down systematically through a series of steps. Safety precautions are put into place and detonations are placed in specific locations. When everything is in order the detonations go off and the building is brought down in a matter of seconds. The only thing left is a cloud of dust and a pile of rubble.

As I pondered this idea I found some interesting parallels to the world we’re in now. Satan is placing detonations in very specific locations. He goes after weaknesses. I have no desire to drink or do drugs. It’s never been a temptation for me. Thus, Satan isn’t going to tempt me with those things. On the other hand, I have a temper and I have seen how Satan has used my temper to get his foot in the door. I’ve had moments where I have yelled at my kids or chewed Scott out that I am very ashamed of. At times I have felt that I am a hopeless case and I will never overcome my emotional outbursts. However, the spirit has reminded me time and time again that I am not hopeless and that Jesus suffered, died, and rose again for me. If I allow myself to wallow in pity and hopelessness then I allow Satan to place a detonation.

It’s easy to see how Satan places detonations in our individual circumstances, but he is also hard at work in the world. I love talk radio, but I have found lately that I just don’t want to listen because the outlook of the world feels so bleak. Every time I listen to the news a new disaster is rearing its ugly head, terrorist attacks are occurring, and good, civilized people are fighting. Why is it so easy to look at the root of our own weaknesses as human imperfection, but another’s weakness is rooted in sinister motives? I’m not saying that evil doesn’t exist. On the contrary, it’s alive and well and spreading. But, I also have to believe that most people are generally good and should be given the benefit of the doubt. We see it after a natural disaster when people from all over the world send prayers and donations and flock to the scene in large numbers to help in any way they can. That desire is rooted in love and compassion and it too is alive and well and spreading. Sadly, there are those whose motive is sinister and they camouflage it very well to look appealing. That is where Satan is allowed to place a strategic detonation.

When Nephi went to the Lord to understand the meaning of his father’s vision of the tree of life he was taught “that the great and spacious building was the pride of the world; and it fell, and the fall thereof was exceedingly great.” (1 Nephi 11:36) The world is going to fall so how can we protect ourselves? When a building is imploded warning signs are posted, fences are put in place, and city blocks are cleared. In other words, we stay out of and away from the building.

When I was growing up we lived in an old house that needed a lot of work. In our backyard was an old garage. It didn’t stand straight and it was held together in places with strips of old beer cans for reinforcement. My sister and I feared it would blow over if we breathed on it hard enough. It wasn’t long before my parents tore that old garage down but while it stood we knew that we were not to play in the garage. As children sometimes do, we had our moments of disobedience. On one occasion one of our cousins was being a punk so we tied him to a chair in the garage and then went outside and started hitting the sidewalk with sticks telling him that we were going to the push the garage over on him. No one ever told my parents what we had done, but the feeling of guilt became a powerful force for change in us and we decided that we would never be mean like that again.

Just because we trespass where we shouldn’t be, doesn’t mean we have to stay there. If you find yourself in the building, get out! Once you’re out, stay out! Keep the building at a safe distance and when it falls you will be protected from its destruction.

Fortunately, we don’t have to travel where we shouldn’t. The roadmap is readily available. It takes the form of scriptures, prayer, personal revelation, teachers, and prophets. Surround yourself with good resources, stay on the correct path, and keep that building ever in your rearview mirror.
